Doc Serrata is a co-founder of OpenCode,
the most popular open source coding harness.
He's also very down-sourced when it comes to AI,
which can be a bit surprising when you consider that he built
such a widely used AI
tool.
Today we talk about the rapid growth of OpenCode to closer to
10 million active users
users in less than a year.
The memo DAX sent to his team admitting they were shipping too
many features,
taking on too many hacks,
and AI usage not helping them move faster.
Why inference is one of the most profitable businesses in tech right now,
and why even open code is bottlenecked by GPU supply and
anymore.
If you'd like to ignore the hype on social media around AI and
instead talk about
where it helps or hinders productive engineering teams,
this episode is for you.
This episode is presented by Antisysys.
Verify your system's correctness without human review or
traditional integration
tests and avoid bugs or outages.
I'd also like to mention our season sponsor, TurboBuffer.
You've probably heard someone say rag is dead these days, but it's not.
It just doesn't mean what it meant in 2023.
Back then, retrieval was pretty straightforward.
The human asks a question,
your code embeds it,
you hit a vector database,
top-key results
results come back, those get stuffed into context, and the LLM answers.
Now look at what's actually happening inside something like
OpenCode or any serious
agent product in 2026.
A human sends one prompt to an orchestrator agent.
That agent fans out to sub-agents.
Each sub-agent is hitting separate systems.
systems.
A vector index,
a full-text index,
grabbing the file system,
running CLI commands and SQL against OLTP and OLAP stores,
reading and writing a memory system,
re-ranking results,
looping and calling more tools.
One human prompt turns into dozens or even hundreds of searches
across totally different shapes of data.
In practice,
this means a lot more complexity,
a lot more cost,
and a lot more potential performance issues,
especially when you need to scale up the system.
This is exactly what TurboPuffer is built for.
It's a ridiculously scalable, fast, and cheap search engine.
It's built on top of object storage for reliability and scale
with smart caching on
NVMe SSDs,
so it's very fast.
It's priced so you can let agents loose with proper rag in 2026
without seeing your
bill explode.
Check it out at turbopuffer.com slash pragmatic.
Dax, welcome to the podcast.
Yeah, thanks for having me and thanks for coming all the way to Miami.
I wanted to jump in to something really interesting about you.
You're building one of the most popular AI engineering harnesses,
OpenCode,
which is speeding up how people write code and just churn out software.
And yet you're claiming...
that this itself is not enough like this itself will not get us
to better software
I've always said the easiest products to build are ones that
you can use yourself
and obviously we built open code so that our team can use it
and it's like we are
the customers of the product so we use it aggressively as much
as anyone else can
and of course it is we build it so we think it's useful and we
use it every day and
it's a critical part of our workflows but
All the old problems that I've always struggled with are still there.
I'm working as hard as I ever have.
I'm struggling as hard as much as I ever have.
So a lot of the job has become easier.
But yeah,
it's a weird feeling because objectively stuff has become
easier.
But then why am I like thinking as hard as I ever have?
You know, it's a weird feeling to have both those things be true.
And it's interesting because a lot of the people who are decision makers,
CEOs,
often hands-on people,
like hands-on CEOs,
CTOs,
founders at companies,
they kind of think,
oh,
look,
we've got these tools.
Coding used to be the hard part, right?
Objectively, it took us so much time.
It still takes to get into the zone if you're going back to
coding by hand.
So if that's faster,
because that's where we used to spend most of our time,
it should be faster.
Everything should be faster.
but why do you think this is not the case or like what is
getting in the way of
like just like shipping high quality software faster better
right yeah I mean
there's different there's different life cycles different
companies there's like
pre-product market fit there's achieved product market fit
which is kind of where
we are and there's companies that are like
have had probably market fit for like a decade.
And I imagine that things look very different across these three.
For us,
pre-probable market fit,
to me,
it doesn't really help that much because you're trying to
figure out what you
should be doing.
And yeah,
like maybe it helps you swing a lot,
but I've always thought it's better to think a lot instead of
swinging a lot.
I think you can eliminate a lot of ideas or directions just by,
you know,
spending a lot of time in your head and with your team talking.
Obviously AI doesn't speed that part up.
We're at the phase where we've achieved product market fit.
Now our task is to kind of hit the potential that we have.
And the issue for us is there's a million different directions
we can go in.
There's all the obvious stuff we can do.
There's all the stuff that our users are telling us that we have to do.
There's stuff that our competitors are doing.
And it's very easy to just
one-to-one do each one of those things because we have a
problem prompt the agent
competitor has a feature prompt the agent user has a problem
prompt the agent if
you add that up you think oh we shipped a thousand features now
that adds it to a
good product it actually adds it to a horrible product
Frankenstein yeah nothing's
cohesive you look in there you're like we shouldn't have
shipped this the moment
you ship something you're stuck supporting it forever and by
supporting it means
any future feature you build is gonna like interact with it so
You still have to be very conservative with what you put out there.
It's hard to undo anything.
Just because we can ship 10 times more doesn't mean we have 10
times as many good
ideas to ship out there.
So in a lot of ways,
my struggle has now been,
how do I slow everyone down?
And understanding that,
yes,
our process can look very different,
but should it look very different?
In the past six months,
we've kind of operated very differently than we ever have.
a lot of stuff went wrong because of that so now we're pulling
back and figuring
out okay what from the old world still makes sense so yeah
we're like figuring out
what we should be doing and I definitely don't feel like oh
yeah we're like killing
all our competitors who are using AI so much better than
everyone else and by the
way none of our competitors are crushing us either like no one
out there is using
AI so well that they just like we can't even compete right and
we're in the coding
agent space all our competitors are super into AI so you would
think in our space
there would be like
a huge gap, but there just isn't.
I want to rewind back to the very beginning of how,
before AI,
before a lot of these things,
how did you get into tech and software engineering?
I grew up programming as a kid.
My dad was a software engineer,
so a little bit easier for me to get into than for other
people.
Then just started working out of high school,
founded a company,
thought it was cool,
thought I knew what I was doing.
Looking back in hindsight,
like,
wow,
I didn't know what I was doing at all.
That eventually got aqua hired as a small aqua hire,
and I ended up in the real tech industry.
bounced around as a consultant,
founded a few companies,
and then ended up doing open source pretty much the past six
years full time.
But going back to the very beginning,
I found or saw some references to you working on Minecraft,
Minecraft servers?
Yeah, yeah.
Back in the beginning, can you take us back a little bit?
Yeah, so Minecraft obviously everyone knows what Minecraft is.
And again, this is another cliche story.
You talk to a bunch of people in tech, they have a similar backstory.
There was a modding framework for Minecraft that came out.
I ended up working on the framework itself.
I ended up making a bunch of mods with it.
I found that I liked creating interesting sandboxes.
I played the game a little bit, but I didn't play the game that much.
I had a server that 100 people would play on,
and I would just use these mods to create interesting
situations to try to
understand how people would behave under certain scenarios,
and I found that fascinating.
But yeah, that required a lot of programming Java stuff.
What's interesting is that community,
obviously I was very new to programming,
It was all done over IRC.
The community existed on IRC.
But there were some very senior, very good programmers in there.
The people there,
I felt like,
were people that weren't particularly career motivated.
They were probably in a comfortable enough situation where they
worked two hours a day.
And they were talented,
but they just didn't have any desire to career chase at all.
So they funneled it into the Minecraft stuff,
and I got to talk to them and learn from them.
I think in like the couple months that I was doing that I learned a lot.
And then you went to startups,
you founded a startup,
and then after being the founder at Iron Bay,
I saw,
looking back at your history,
you became a head of engineering at Wright Health.
Can you tell me a little bit about what was that like?
That was in 2017 or so, like pre-COVID?
yeah yeah so that was a company did transportation in the
healthcare space uh it
was just me and the co-founder originally um and that that
company grew to like
20 people or so.
That was my second swing at doing a startup, I would say.
And it got further than my previous attempts.
But it kind of ended up in a disaster.
I did end up meeting my wife there.
She was head of product.
I was head of engineering.
We got together after a year.
So better than a startup exit, I would say.
Definitely learned a lot.
But yeah,
it was one of the situations where everyone was super young in
their 20s.
And I think there's this stereotype of startups that,
oh yeah,
it's a bunch of super young people building stuff.
After that experience,
if I ever end up investing in companies,
I'm not going to invest in companies that with a bunch of young
people because we
were all just like our brains weren't fully developed.
We're all insecure about various things still and that like
played out with like
company politics and dramatics and stuff so uh yeah that cliche
of like oh yeah
it's a bunch of young people I think that's like the exception
I would say looking
back so so like a bunch of young people succeeding is probably
the exception yeah
yeah and of course we have like famous stories of that um but
you know like on
average like for me I felt like my brain didn't finish
developing until I was like
26 I think so prior to that you know I don't know if I really
should have been uh
running a startup
And when you say like stop developing,
is it just kind of like getting enough experience to like
understand how like a
business actually works or like professional relationship?
In what sense?
Yeah,
I think for me,
it's like startups are so intimate because it's just you and a
few people and it's
very intense.
Like you are this is the thing you're doing.
Like you're not really this is your hobby.
It's your job.
It's kind of everything.
If you're not like fully developed as a person,
like if you're trying to prove something to the world,
if you're still insecure about certain things,
all that shows up at work especially in such an intimate
situation like that so
fighting conflict all that stuff the way I perceived the
situation even my own
understanding of what was going on just basic like how to be a
person and live in
the world uh
I think for guys, it takes a while for their brain to fully settle.
And when it did,
it felt like day and night,
like I was a different person,
but it definitely took a bit.
And now you can look back at that time and just kind of be
like,
oh gosh,
what was I doing?
What was I thinking?
Yeah,
everything was just so magnified and way more intense and way
more emotional than
it needed to be,
I think.
Okay,
so the people who knew the DAX back then might be a little bit
surprised.
Yeah, I think so.
But again, that's when my wife met me, so something was right there.
Did you,
in your first few years,
so you founded a startup,
then you went,
you kept going up like very early stage startups,
either as a founder or an early founding engineer or so.
Did you ever consider larger companies at that time?
Yeah,
I think that was always there because,
you know,
for me,
this era was like the early 2010s or mid-2010s.
The big tech companies were very prestigious at that point.
Everyone you met was trying to get a job at either one of the
big tech companies or
one of the hot unicorn startups at the time.
That was the thing to try to do.
If you weren't doing that, you basically were going to fail in tech.
So I felt like some kind of pull from that point of view,
but I also just couldn't get my shit together to do that.
I knew what it takes to...
There's a set of things you have to do to be successful there.
I just couldn't even do that.
Yeah,
I could say like,
oh yeah,
I chose not to do it,
but really I just don't think I was it.
What do you think the things were back then?
I mean,
you know,
there was a very structured interview process for these things.
You know, you got to do certain programming problems, whatever.
And I think I was a good programmer and I think I had done some
interviews that
were like that and I,
some of them I even did well in,
but
The level of competition and people study for it,
people focus on it,
just randomly swinging at it,
I don't think I would have landed anything.
So yeah, I was into building stuff, I was into more practical things.
And I just struggled to do anything outside of that.
And then how did you transition into open source?
Serverless Stack was a big project of yours.
It was a toolkit for building full stack AWS applications, I think.
Yeah, that was kind of where our initial focus was.
Yeah, in terms of how we got into open source.
So after Riot Health kind of ended up in disaster,
I took a job at a series B stage startup.
At that time, for me, it was the biggest company I'd ever worked at.
And I eventually got put in a director role.
First time being a full-time manager with no other active
programming tasks.
And I still wanted to program a lot,
so I ended up exploring a bunch of open source things at the time.
I had three or four hours of manager meetings every day,
but then outside of that,
I had time to explore open source,
things like that.
And I started to build my own crappy stuff,
and then I came across SST,
which had just launched.
It was maybe a couple months old.
That was Frank and Jay.
I created this thing originally, started contributing to it.
They were raising a round.
They were kind of getting out of YC, raising a round.
I invested in that round.
And then a month later,
I ended up joining the team and they gave me the money back as salary,
but now I had to pay taxes on it.
So if you're going to invest in a company,
make sure you're not going to join them.
It's a bad use of money.
Yeah.
And then you did SST and then you did some other stuff as well
on the side,
right?
Open Next.
So Open Next, I think, was probably a thing that blew us up initially.
This wasn't even a thing that we wanted to build.
We were serving people in the AWS space.
every single day someone would come to us and be like we like
what you guys are
doing but we really need help deploy Next.js AWS and over and
over like for a year
people were just nagging us about this and we didn't want to do
it because we
weren't Next.js users very tedious you know Next.js is a very
complex framework
trying to recreate the right infrastructure for all that in AWS
is a lot of work
digging into like JavaScript bundling like Next.js internals
like not very fun not
very exciting work so we made Frank do all of it so he
basically slogged through
through that and figured out how to
uh get it all working in AWS our goal from the beginning was
this project shouldn't
exist it's just a weird gap because uh the Next.js team is
focused more on Vercel
and it wasn't like a malicious thing or anything it's just
where the attention
would naturally go uh so we're like let's fill this gap the end
ideal stage should
be that you know Vercel eventually just manages all this and
there's no need for
this so we built that uh it annoyed Vercel a bunch um
But yeah,
it was very useful for the people that were trying to deploy in
other places.
Eventually,
we kind of rallied some other providers that had problems with
Next.js as well.
So Cloudflare, Netlify.
I think Microsoft got in there eventually too.
Google got in there eventually.
And they kind of built stuff, adapters for OpenNext.
And eventually the Next.js team had time to kind of like,
okay,
let's make an official adapters API.
And in the past year or two, it became a much more collaborative thing.
And I think the need for Open Next is slowly going away.
And then how did OpenCode come about?
Because that's a pretty recent story.
It started sometime in summer of last year, summer 2025.
In less than a year.
Yeah, yeah.
Back in February,
our company,
we were basically doing a push ahead to pay profitability.
So with SST, we had a monetization path for that.
Basically,
for like three or four months,
we were like running out of money.
and then but our revenue was going up and then in February we
had like one month of
money left but then we also broke even at the same at the same
time weirdly though
we were all like really calm about it it just felt like I don't
know it felt like
something would would work out and it did uh so that gave us
time to kind of take a
step back and think about
We can technically do whatever we want now like what do we want
to be doing and for
a while we're like obviously AI is a thing to work on this
decade especially if
you're working in dev tools we've been through waves before
where like there's just
a thing that happens and whenever a thing that's happening it
seems like it's not
making a lot of sense because whenever something that is has a
lot of potential it
attracts a lot of investment by
It's innate nature.
Most of that investment doesn't make sense.
So it's very easy to look at anything exciting that's happening
and think none of
that makes sense.
I'm not going to participate in it.
But usually what happens is a few things in there make a lot of sense.
And if you just completely sit out, you just miss out on that.
I think we've been through a few waves of kind of doing that.
where we saw the AI thing and we're like,
okay,
a lot of this stuff is stupid,
but there's definitely a real value here.
We need to be doing something in it.
And we took a few swings at a few ideas and a lot of them we
didn't even fully
launch because we just discovered they didn't make sense while
we were working on
it.
And then eventually we started to use Cloud Code as a team.
It was the first AI coding tool that stuck for us.
It directly solved some of the workflow annoyances that we had.
This is great.
Obviously, this should exist.
at some point I asked why weren't we the ones that built this
like we should feel
bad about that and then we realized okay maybe there is like
still an opportunity
to do something given our experience in open source uh we kind
of saw I think it
was a worse thing earlier like you don't have to just ship a
million products to
figure out something that works if you sit and think you can
figure something out
and we kind of looked at it from a positioning point of view
like there's a market
there's a bunch of coding agents out there
For some reason, no one has grabbed the open source territory.
There was no coding agent that was like, we are the open source option.
And that obviously is a super valuable territory.
Every single dev tool we use,
whether it's databases,
compilers,
whatever,
eventually the open source option becomes the default option,
right?
That combined with the fact there's heavy, heavy competition for models.
Sure,
Claude was popular,
but there's billions and billions and billions of dollars
invested.
They're not just going to let Anthropic win.
There's going to be
Push from OpenAI, there's going to be push from the open source side.
So given that we saw that chaos,
we saw that it's really valuable to have the open source
positioning that tries to
work with all the models.
So the initial push for us was to kind of ignore whatever was
going on the market
and just make sure that we claimed that open source spot,
which we were able to do.
And then, yeah, like our numbers have been pretty crazy since then.
Can you tell me about the growth?
Like you launched in June 2025,
how the growth was both for usage,
but also for the team.
Like when you started, how big was even the team?
Was it most of the,
the existing sort of animal labs working on this or just a
small?
Yeah, no.
So we were just three people at the time.
So it was just the three co-founders.
Yeah.
And then,
um,
uh,
we hired,
one of my friends who was also interested in working as a,
and he helped us build like the initial thing,
but he joined,
uh,
so it was four and then
We convinced one of our,
like a really good designer that we would always want to work
with to join us as
well.
And that was after we launched.
So that was more like in the fall.
But yeah, so we launched and the growth was really good.
Like immediately, it was better than anything that we'd ever done.
But by December, we hit 650,000 monthly actives.
And at that point, we're like, wow, this is great.
Back in the fall,
we were kind of telling people our goal was to hit 1 million by
early next year.
everyone thought we were crazy like that was like oh okay sure
then in January we
did 2.5 million monthly actives uh so like went from 650 to 2.5
Last month, we're at 6.5.
I think this month, we're still halfway into the month, so I'm not sure.
Maybe close to 8.
Our next gold milestone was 10.
There was a massive jump,
so we went to 650 in December and 2.5 in January.
What was that jump?
Is that the winter break jump where everyone started to realize
that these models
are really great?
Yeah,
so having been at DevTools for a while,
we knew that in January there's always a bump because I think
people take time to
learn new things in December with a time off and they have time
to try new stuff.
So what we typically see is we see a dip into the holidays and
like a giant spike
in the first week back.
For this,
we saw growth into the holidays,
which we've never seen with any other product before.
Despite the fact that people were off, it was higher usage than ever.
And then January came around and Anthropic helped us a lot by...
you know they like wanted to ban Anthropic subscriptions in
open code that blew up
into like a huge thing like we barely even commented on that
but like just the user
base was so upset Anthropic accidentally put us and them in
like the same sentence
which we don't deserve because they're a much bigger more
successful company but
that week that kind of happened by accident and that like
spiked our numbers like crazy.
So I guess in hindsight,
because what happened is and traffic silently banned being able
to use cloud code
subscriptions inside of open code,
which was every tool,
including open code did that because it was a bunch of other
third parties,
but they didn't allow open code to do this.
And then this led to this like outrage.
The thing with them is that they're kind of new to working with
developers.
It's okay to do things like of course you need to do what you
need to do to make
your business sustainable is totally fine but randomly dropping
a block at like 9pm
at night that just sets you up for like people to hate you
doing like a phased
communicated rollout over a month
This reminds me of what we were talking about,
how AI allows you to do things really quickly and fast.
Do you think, in this case, Entropic might be
stepping in this trap of they can do things really fast and
they do things really fast.
But for example, in this case, they can just implement a block like this.
The PR probably took a few seconds or a few minutes.
Whoever did that might have not thought through the implications.
I think this is a consequence of any kind of fast-growing company.
You forget the amount of leverage you now suddenly have.
You do one small action and it ripples through millions of people.
We're dealing with this ourselves.
We've never worked at this scale before.
We put out a bug the other day where...
almost everyone has their terminal in dark mode and when you
open open code it
opened up in light mode so we like flash banged a bunch of
people and I'm like in
the past I would have been like a hundred people we hit but
like I did this like a
million people this week so uh yeah but but inside this block
obviously we know it
worked out well in in hindsight but when it happened I mean at
the time Opus
4.5 or 4.6 was the most powerful model out there, best for coding.
And you saw that Antropic just blocked,
you know,
like clock hosts for Christians before you knew that this press
would happen.
Like was it seems reaction?
Was it just like stay calm, keep going?
Yeah.
What's weird is
We knew this day would happen at some point and for some reason
when it happened we
all just felt excited because I think we were kind of like
thinking about this for
a while and we knew this would happen we also knew that like we
live in this crazy
bubble like especially on Twitter where everyone has a $200
CloudMax subscription
At that point we were at 650,000 monthly actives.
There's no way 650,000 of them have cloud max subscriptions.
It's crazy for the average person to spend $200 a month on anything.
So we knew it was like a smaller subset.
And also at the time we had been working on deals with pretty
much every other
company to officially support their subscription in open code.
So the previous weeks leading up to that we got
Microsoft to agree for GitHub Copilot to be officially blessed
by OpenCode.
We got a bunch of different companies in the works.
We haven't announced any of them yet.
And the big one we hadn't gotten or we haven't even approached
was OpenAI.
So when this happened that night, I forgot what, it was a Thursday night.
I don't remember exactly when.
I got like a hundred tags on X being like,
oh,
they banned it,
they banned it.
And I was like, all right, it's go time.
So I messaged OpenAI being like, hey, tomorrow...
uh everyone's gonna wake up everyone's gonna be really angry at
Anthropic you guys
have a chance to score like a PR win by taking the opposite
stance and officially
supporting OpenCode the next morning they confirmed like yeah
let's do it so in the
morning everybody was like oh Anthropic blocked OpenCode
they're screwed I saw a
bunch of people being like they're worth nothing now like
they're gonna go to zero
whatever I was like laughing at myself I'm like okay just wait
till the end of the
day and then
We figured out the integration,
we implemented it,
and at the end of the day,
we announced that OpenAI is officially supported in OpenCode.
We knew what was going to happen.
Going all the way back to the OpenNext thing,
the strategy that we know how to play really well is to pick
one temporary bad guy
and galvanize all their competitors to push something forward
against them.
Anthropic was unfortunately in that position,
so we kind of got the rest of the industry to
you know support open code support like access to these models
in different places
because they were all competing with with Anthropix so these
are like nice
strategies that you can run in these situations even as a small
company I'm
starting to get a sense that that past 10ish years of building
dev tools or like at
least like five of open source and understanding dynamics is
really helping you
because even even when you told me about how you were thinking
of open code you're
talking about strategy about how there was this gap and there's
all these competing
model providers and with an open alternative over time
In a lot of ecosystems,
the open one wins,
and the vendors compete,
for example,
with Linux.
You know,
Linux is open source,
but the distributions are for-profit companies,
Red Hat,
Ubuntu,
or Canonical,
and so on.
And they all compete, and they make it better.
So even in this case,
it sounds like you,
you know,
like,
it all goes back to you actually had a strategy that you
expected that if the
players play,
the vendors play as they play,
it will make sense.
Yeah, exactly.
If you get your positioning right,
the world just keeps handing you wins that you didn't even expect.
So we never predicted this exact scenario,
but our fundamental understanding of the position was right.
If there is a neutral party,
all these companies with billions of dollars will use a neutral
party to advance
their own
like company's interests so it's beneficial to be that thing in
the middle yeah and
then right now Codex came forward they saw it as a way to
increase brand awareness
usage right now they're sharing like how much is growing and
I'm sure logically at
some point they might turn around at some point say
Let's say they win the market or they become market leaders,
they might do the same saying,
okay,
we no longer want to support this thing.
But at that point,
there might be other players as long as there's multiple
interested parties.
Yeah, exactly.
So at some point,
maybe OpenAI becomes a bad guy that we have to like kind of
galvanize everyone
around.
So it's, I mean, it's why competition is good.
This is kind of exactly how competition plays out.
I think the thing that people maybe underestimate is like,
we're a small company,
we're not like a huge company at all.
If you apply pressure in the right places,
you can actually make things happen.
We get a lot of criticism and anger from people being like,
oh,
you guys are being so mean to Anthropic.
They criticize the way we approach things,
but these are billion-dollar huge companies.
Us being able to apply any amount of pressure to get something to happen,
it's very difficult,
and this is what it looks like.
People might think that they're above it or whatever,
but having more access to these things,
having more people be able to use the tools they want is a good
thing that
You can love Cloud Code,
be like,
I'm never switching off Cloud Code,
that's great.
You should probably still be into the fact that people can use
other tools that
they like,
right?
And going back to why Open Code is so successful and that there
was a gap using
what you've learned about DevTools in general,
like,
why was there a gap?
What do you think
What was the difference that you did outside of just writing
the tool to start with?
The biggest advantage in DevTools is the fact that everyone
working at DevTools is
a programmer,
and programmers are horrible at B2C products.
They don't realize DevTools are B2C products.
B2C as in business of consumer.
Yeah, exactly.
So you treat them
Like the most extreme mindset to have is like you treat them as
well you're
launching Instagram or social media app something like that
yeah you can do a
top-down process and there's plenty of companies that do like
an intense top-down
enterprise process and that works and that's great but the
DevTool products that
are like massively adopted to the point where they're basically
a standard they're
all bottom-up like they're
individual developers start to use them start to like them and
they kind of creep
into companies and they grow in that direction and to do bottom
up you have to
basically think like a consumer company and programmers
generally are very very bad
at thinking this way so we very much focused on the moment you
open open code it
should feel very different uh and better than some of the other
options and to do
that we had to build like a ground up uh
terminal rendering framework.
That's not what Cloud Code did.
That's not what any of these other terminal coding agents did.
They just used ink or whatever, and they
made it work for what they need.
But we invested on that upfront because from the moment you use it,
it feels like something different.
It might not be for you,
like maybe you don't like the overwhelming experience,
maybe it feels like too much,
but you still walk away thinking the people that did this are
competent probably.
So immediately getting people a good feeling and then
immediately getting them
prompting without any layers of friction.
So we focus on just reducing that friction as much as possible
and focusing on things like I'm on a lockdown enterprise laptop.
How do I can I use open code?
Like optimizing for all of those things.
And our harness wasn't very good for like the first like five
months of open code,
but it was good enough.
It was good enough that most people couldn't really tell the difference.
And once we won enough share,
then we went back and like tried to make our harness like good
and smart and
optimized and all those things.
But it was inverted from what everybody else was doing.
Everybody else was being like,
you have to build a smart harness and that's how you win.
We did.
We have like
A mid-level harness, but we are the most used.
And now we're able to creep up and actually have the best
harness and are also the most used.
So I think it was an inverted strategy that we did that other
people didn't fully understand.
And to get into the inverse strategies,
the technical level,
you launched with a framework Atari,
right?
Oh, that was a referred desktop app.
So the desktop, I would say, I wouldn't even say that was...
That was mostly a mistake on our part.
So I love terminal stuff.
I do all my work on the terminal.
So our numbers are,
we're going to hit like 8 million monthly active users.
I don't think 8 million people should be using the terminal.
I think it's a little over,
we have like too many users for what the product is.
I think a lot of them would probably have a better experience on a GUI.
and we understood that very early and so we were kind of
experimenting with like a
web app with a desktop app and uh so we're like this is
probably gonna be the
direction things go unfortunately we were right like that that
is like where things
are going but we didn't like treat that project too like we
should treat it a lot
more seriously and try to get it like uh out there way faster
and thought a little
bit harder on the technical stuff so yeah we just kind of
picked stuff and we
didn't like think too hard about it and uh it ultimately was a
mistake and we're
moving back to Electron now
But open code is growing amazingly fast.
Interesting enough,
there's this growth hack that some harnesses are doing.
I would say growth hack where in the PR on GitHub,
they actually put which harness did it.
Cloud Code is doing it.
GitHub Copilot is doing it.
Some others are not doing it.
and an open code you are not doing it even though this could be
like almost like
free marketing yeah so initially we had that because initially
we were effectively
a cloud code clone if cloud code did it we did it so we had
that like with the
commit it would say you know committed with open code whatever
in github and then
we got a bunch of people being like hey can i disable can i
have an option to
disable this and i thought about it and i was like this is so
late it just felt
lame to me i'm like you can be like a casino right like a
casino just tries to trap
you in there with every little trick uh trick to like get you to stay
That's at the extreme of doing a consumer product.
I felt like we didn't have to go to that extreme.
It felt like a little bit lame to like try to...
It's like too obvious of a growth hack, right?
Everyone sees it and everyone knows why that's there.
Yeah, so I just wasn't a big fan.
And so instead of having the option, we just turned it off by default.
You know,
you're still running a company that is a for-profit company in
the end or you need
to make bankroll.
What is the business model behind OpenCoat?
So we have two lines of business basically.
So initially...
When we first launched OpenCode,
a big problem that people had was,
or that we had,
again,
thinking about reducing friction,
they had to connect something.
They had to connect their Anthropic account.
They had to connect their OpenAI account.
At that time,
when you sign up for Anthropoc,
you couldn't even get enough rate limits to even use something
like OpenCode.
So a lot of our users couldn't even use it.
So we're like,
okay,
we have to at least build some kind of inference service that
you can sign up for
and get access to all the models with the rate limits you need.
So we built that and we called it OpenCodeZen.
And we initially just built it as an onboarding thing to smooth
out onboarding.
But that grew like a ton.
And with the amount of open source models are becoming popular,
we also found there's a ton of difficulty in hosting open
source models correctly.
So Xen has become a place to aggregate the best model.
I mean,
of course,
frontier models are easy,
but then the best inference for all the open source models
All that became really popular.
That business is growing a ton.
I think a couple months ago we announced that that hit 15
million run rate within
like five or six months.
Wow.
And the margins there can be pretty good because open source
models you can host at
a decent margin.
That is growing like crazy.
We didn't really expect that, but that's a big part of it.
The other side of it is extremely boring.
If you are a company that's using open code and you have a
thousand engineers,
You can't just tell them all to go download open code and add
an open API key.
You need some kind of control plane to set up all the providers,
permissions,
budget controls,
rate limits.
So we have a product there.
We're going to make that publicly available soon,
but right now it's just been enterprise deployed.
So if you're a company that's using open code at scale,
you need some administrative software to run it.
You can't practically use open code at scale without something like that.
That's also open source, but most people just pay for our hosted version.
The other thing is
I think the time has finally come where people are looking at
how much they're spending on LLM.
And they're like, what are we doing?
Are we actually getting anything anymore done?
So companies are now looking at their costs and trying to
figure out how to
optimize it a little bit.
It's great timing because open source models are now very competitive.
they are 10x cheaper blending that in and having good inference
for open source
models is becoming a part of our business as well so these big
companies you know
they need the control plane but then we kind of just give them
inference access as
well to the these other models and they end up just kind of
naturally starting to
If that ends up being a main part of our business,
we might stop charging for the control plane itself and just
charge for the
inference.
DAX was just talking about the boring but essential work to get
enterprises onboarded.
SSO,
permissions,
control planes,
all the stuff every serious company eventually needs.
Which is where I need to mention our season sponsor, WorkOS.
Sooner,
rather than later,
you'll need to get around building these enterprise features.
Not just control planes, but things like auth for apps and agents.
WorkOS handles it.
SSO,
SCIM,
fine-grained authorization built for how agents actually
operate.
The fastest-growing AI companies,
Entropic,
OpenAI,
Cursor,
Perplexity,
they already trust WorkOS to solve these problems.
Check it out at WorkOS.com.
I'd also like to talk about our presenting sponsor, Anthesitus.
We just talked about slowing down to speed up,
thinking hard about what to build so you're not sprinting to
the wrong destination.
But quality is part of the destination too.
You don't want your product to flashbang a million
in people like the team at OpenCode did that one time.
Antithesis is a property-based testing platform that enables
you to express the
properties your system should have,
then verify that those properties will hold in the chaos of production.
With Antithesis,
specification and thorough verification becomes a seamless workflow,
giving you clarity so you can deliver quality.
Check out antithesis.com slash pragmatic to learn more.
And with this, let's get back to DAX and OpenCode.
We had a recent tweet about how inference is actually really,
really profitable.
You were quoting someone who was saying,
oh,
these AI model providers might be having financial difficulties.
Can you explain to those of us software engineers who,
you know,
we don't do inference,
I mean,
we use these models and we just assume that this must be our business.
How can it be profitable?
Why is it profitable?
What are you seeing?
Yeah,
so I think this is a,
it's kind of,
there are different parts of the business.
So if you look at the
pure inference part of a business if you think about what's the
floor on the cost
the floor is a cost of electricity there's a capital cost to
acquire the hardware
once you have it to deliver a token the cheapest it can get is
the electricity to
power it and obviously there's like other infrastructure
there's like operations
staff there's stuff like that but we have seen models that we
look at the sticker
price of it and we know like the uh
because we rent GPUs at scale to run the models and we still
use middlemen by the
way so we're not like going all the way down to the floor even
for us there are
some models the sticker price and the cost to us there's like
an 80% margin in
there and I think the other thing that people don't notice is
prices have gone up
it's confusing because it seems like they haven't but they've
gone up from the
point of view is we used to all use sauna as our default
because Opus was too
expensive then they made Opus cheaper
So that we started to use Opus as our default,
but it was still way more expensive than Sonnet.
So the prices have gone up and the cost to host these models
haven't changed.
So that's one aspect of it being really profitable.
And Anthropic, of course, they have, and OpenAI, crazy scale.
They have the biggest GPU deals that they've done.
So I wouldn't be surprised if they're looking at like 90%
margin at current prices.
I don't think that's like a defensible margin long term.
That's crazy to be able to make that much with the amount of
money going through as well.
It's interesting because when Brian Cantrell was on the podcast,
he used to work at building a cloud service that would compete with AWS.
And he said that back then this was the same thing.
AWS back then hid their financials,
everyone thought,
and they told everyone that cloud is a terrible business and
it's like your red
blood everywhere.
And then he started to do it and he said like, actually,
There's always negative sentiment that exists for any business
that's getting hyped.
They have no incentive to correct it.
So again,
it's complicated because I know the training costs are a big
part of it.
The R&D department is hugely expensive,
but long-term inference makes sense as a business.
I think it always will.
This being said, you also said something in public about GPUs.
I'm quoting you, there are just enough GPUs.
It's crazy that even a company our size is being bottlenecked by us.
What does that mean?
Yeah so across the whole stack of GPUs so everything from like
producing the GPU to
supporting hardware to like labor everything everything is like
super tight right
now the demand for inference is growing so like I don't think
it's linearly growing
I think it might even be exponentially growing but we haven't
made our production
of GPUs grow exponentially that's like kind of a linear process
so as those lines
intersect there's going to be uh
tightening.
So for us, we have GPUs that we need to reserve.
We have to pay a lot up front.
Everyone is now hoarding because everyone's kind of expecting
this crunch to kind of continue.
It's very hard to get capacity for inference.
And the other thing that's crazy, I think I posted about this,
You know,
we see things like,
oh,
a company has raised $2 billion or whatever to do something in AI.
And that feels like a crazy amount.
Like, wow, that's a huge amount.
Like, you have to be like a crazy startup to do that.
The big tech companies are spending like tens of billions in a year.
Like, Amazon, Meta, whatever.
Like, they dwarf anything that's happening in the startup space.
So they are just vacuuming up, like,
all the demand.
Any company that is in the supply chain,
they don't want to talk to you because they're busy trying to
get something with
Amazon or Microsoft or Google.
So yeah, it's very tight times.
I think it'll get resolved.
I think in my whole career, anytime I've seen any kind of shortage,
I want to talk about the hype of what productivity gains these days.
AI tools,
specifically AI agents are giving to engineering teams and the
reality.
And you wrote a now very heavily quoted tweet,
which was,
I'll quote you some parts of it.
Everyone's talking about their teams like they were at peak of
efficiency and
bottleneck by the ability to produce code.
But the way things actually look like is and you listed a few
things like your
team,
your org really has good ideas.
People are not using AI to be 10x more productive.
They're using it to turn out their tasks with less energy to
spend and so on.
So like this was a few months ago,
I think two or three months ago when you wrote it.
Yeah, I think there's so many dimensions to this.
So the thing I was talking about in that post is
The majority,
again,
we forget how big the software engineering industry is.
Every company in the world employs software engineers to some degree.
The majority of these environments aren't the most motivating,
exciting environments.
Most people there are trying to do their job,
go home to their kids,
have a reasonable life.
You give them a button that lets them do their work faster,
the natural place for them to do is hit that button as much as
possible do the same
amount of work and just cash in that extra time right which
makes total sense like
if you're not if you have no reason to be above and beyond
motivated you're not
going to really use that to like you know push your
organization harder yeah these
tools may make you more productive but like be really realistic
about your
employees like where are they going to like cash in cash in
those gains obviously
some companies are not like that they're
Employees are motivated,
they have good reason to be,
they're compensated in a way that makes sense.
But most places aren't like that.
And the problem with that is usually in those environments,
it's like there will be a couple people that are irrationally
motivated because
they love the work they do,
etc.,
even though the rest of the company isn't as motivated.
They're usually the ones that are trying to make sure
everything is good quality,
push everyone to try harder.
They're all now overwhelmed by slot PRs.
And we've had a few people on our team that have joined and
their previous company
was like this.
They were the person that still cared.
The rest of the organization just hits the button and gets
their tasks done.
and they're drowning in just garbage and they're getting burnt
out and they're leaving.
So motivation and team and people and humans and like emotions,
all that stuff is still a big factor in all of this.
How do you think companies like let's say
A mid-sized company or even a small company might have to
rethink motivation,
compensation,
thinking about work.
I was talking with Steve Yeggie about this on how an engineer could,
if they're super motivated and they put in the task and energy,
they can produce a lot more output.
And if it's well-directed, that could be better business results.
But it does come at a huge risk.
costs and energy.
And again,
if you're if you're just being paid by the same paycheck,
it doesn't necessarily make as much sense to do so.
So I'm wondering, like, what kind of early thoughts you have so far?
And of course, for you guys in a startup, I guess,
It might be a bit easier.
I mean, obviously for us, you're right, it's easier for us.
We are in a very exciting space.
The people that join our company are very competitive.
They want to get in there and they want to win.
So that's like a big driver.
Everyone has equity that if we do our jobs right,
like it'll be pretty meaningful for them at some point.
Even pre-AI, I feel like
uh again i can only speak for startups as like that's where my
experience is i'd
always see startups post jobs where they're like we're hiring
two engineers and
they post two salaries and these are like okay salaries i
always thought like why
just hire one person and combine the salary you'll get someone
that'll like
meaningfully change the direction of your whole life like
people will start showing
up at that level um so we've always been willing to pay pay
quite a lot we don't
need to hire a thousand people we need to hire like 20 good
people um so generally
i think
I wonder if it's a thing where it is hard to retrofit this
technology and the way
of working to existing structures which have been
and I guess the question goes back to like how much will like
the AI native startup
like yours or ones that are starting today change like how will
their workflows
change the type of work even the roles right like what does the
software engineer
even do in terms of okay of course they prompt AI to write code
but what about a
product what about all these other things yeah yeah I mean yeah
I think the
bottlenecks are still there they're still figuring out what you
should be doing you
can spend a year just figuring out the right thing to do and
then once you figure
it out maybe it's fast to actually build it but
Yeah,
like I think the joke I made was pre-AI I would spend 95% of my
energy thinking
about what to do and 5% of my energy doing it.
Now I spend 96% of my time thinking I was doing 4% of my time
actually doing it.
So yeah,
it's like a 20% improvement,
but day to day,
it feels as hard as ever.
Another observation you made is at a lot of companies,
and you will,
I guess,
see this secondhand from OpenCoach being user companies,
that the CFO is now going,
what do you mean each engineer costs extra $2,000 per month?
What are things you're hearing about in that area?
Because this is happening.
Yeah,
so with I think with every technology,
there's a phase of like flexing where there's so many companies
now that want to be
seen as like
We're so future-facing,
our process is ahead of everyone else's,
no chance you're going to catch up.
And they're all bragging about how much they're spending.
So right now,
there's a push to be like,
each engineer is spending like $10,000 a month.
And that's so worth it.
Our business is so successful and so useful and so efficient
that any amount of
money is worth it.
And there's a lot of that narrative.
Then there's like, and that's fake, that'll go away.
Then there's a real narrative of like,
yeah,
these companies hire thousands of engineers.
If they literally cost $1,000 extra a month,
that like breaks your whole budget.
Like that's not a thing that you can kind of casually do.
We're in a temporary period of like,
we're experimenting to see what's possible and everyone's learning.
I doubt this is going to be a sustainable thing.
These companies were already pretty tight on what they could afford,
especially if they can't directly point to clear results.
Here's the issue, right?
The net result of this,
I'm not saying this is the case,
but there is a world where the net result of all these AI
coding tools is the same
amount of work gets done,
but all the engineers are happier because their job is easier.
That's not good enough for a lot of companies.
So they're just going to say, go back to typing out the code.
It's also an interesting dynamic where there's also the pressure of,
well,
when everyone else is doing it,
even if we just stick with the happier analogy,
and again,
let's assume that the quality of the output overall wouldn't
change if everyone else is doing it and you're like okay well
it's not worth it
let's stop it then your best engineers will leave so i i'm also
hearing some uh cto
saying like well we're giving access to better better tools
because we're one of
the best companies like it would look silly if we said like oh
you can only use i
don't know github copilot we're not allowing you to get
whatever open code or clock
code or whatever else that is because we like our best people
would leave yeah no
that that is a real thing it's kind of like uh i mean again
depends on if if you
have someone that's really good that has infinite opportunities
using Jira is a risk because they're going to be like I hate
using Jira every day
and they're going to leave and I know people that have
literally have done that so
that's like always a dynamic so but that will be at the top of
the market right
yeah exactly yeah so it's again I think at the scale we're at
we're just so exposed
to like
how big the world truly is.
And the world we typically play in,
it's so small compared to everything else that exists.
And at most of these companies, it is just use Copilot.
Just plug Copilot into open code and that's all you get.
And your limit's your limit and that's what's there.
And there's some narrative being pushed that these companies
are going to die
because they're going to fall behind,
etc.
But I don't know.
I just don't think it's that straightforward.
Another...
So,
one of the longer posts that I paid a lot of attention to is
the one that you sent
out to your team,
to the OpenCode team,
which was on the topic of saying,
all right,
we should do three changes,
I'll quote you.
How did you get to these observations and what's changed since?
How did it seem to respond?
So the first thing, right?
Features that we shouldn't have shipped.
So easy just to respond to a problem by shipping a feature.
So having more restraint.
And so we try to flesh that out a little bit more.
Like, here's the type of stuff that we want to ship.
You have a system that's doing a bunch of stuff.
You need to add a feature to it.
The system doesn't exactly support the feature,
so your options are rethink the system from first principles,
redesign it so it supports that feature,
or just absorb the hack temporarily.
And you can make a judgment call on which one you do depending
on how bad the hack
is,
depending on how valuable to the company it is to get this feature out.
You make the judgment call.
That judgment,
that ability to have that judgment is so distorted right now
because the agent will
just do the hacky thing for you.
The agent will kind of deal with the hacky problems that come
down the road.
And it's way easier to be like, oh yeah, it's a temporary fix.
So we're shipping way more hacks in places where we should have
just rethought the
whole system from ground up or like redesigned it and
refactored it to make it more
flexible.
So I think our judgment is just off.
Does this have to do that when I as an engineer,
you know,
pre-AI,
like I'm making a hack.
I know I'm making a hack.
I'm thinking about it.
I feel bad about it.
I feel bad.
Yeah, exactly.
But I do it anyway.
But,
you know,
I spend time thinking about it and there's kind of like a
little bit of prickle
there.
And then when I do a second hack,
I remember the first one and I feel even worse about it.
And I can still justify it, right?
But after a while, like there's feelings that especially...
when you're someone who cares.
And the reason you care is you have an experience, you've been burned.
You know,
you're placing landmines for someone else,
maybe even for yourself.
And is it just that the agents, A, I mean, they just do it.
They don't have feelings.
And they also suppress the effort, suppress the thinking.
They don't even tell you I'm doing a hack.
They don't even know it's doing a hack.
It's just following whatever the training data is,
which is pretty low-quality code on the internet,
right?
Yeah, exactly.
I think the way you put it is exactly right.
That prickle, that feeling that you get
It's like muted now because someone else,
it's kind of like you made someone else deal with the problem.
The problem is still there and the landmines are still going to
blow up on you
eventually,
but like you're not,
you don't feel that bad feeling as much anymore.
So your judgment is skewed.
You're not getting that feedback loop.
I guess this is like,
you know,
like there's always this like very relatable story of the CEO
who just delegates
stuff and then like doesn't understand why things are terrible
on the floor and
then like one day goes down and like gets into like doing the
actual work and
realize,
oh my God,
these conditions are terrible.
Yeah, exactly.
Versus the CEOs who are hands-on and they try to stay in touch and do,
I don't know,
simple stuff like,
or CTOs doing coding in the environment.
Like I think Stripe CTO did this like once per week every few
months and then felt
like,
oh,
this is painful.
Let me do that.
Yeah, exactly.
Like you need to,
I mean,
just like you need to be using your own product,
you need to be also like,
you need to feel the pain that the users are feeling.
Same thing with your code base, same thing everywhere.
So yeah,
I think all of life is about having the proper feedback loops
in place and it's
very easy for those to go away.
And then the third thing that you said in this memo was related
to this one is we
need to spend more time cleaning things up.
How do you deal with that?
And I mean, because you're also a founder, how do you justify it?
Because,
you know,
there's this thing of like,
especially when you're a startup,
okay,
you've just found product market fit,
but there is this pressure to move quickly.
And cleaning things up, it will not get you more...
customer love or revenue or any of the stuff that you care
about as a business.
Yeah,
it's really hard because every single day we wake up,
there is a thousand people yelling at us,
telling us to do X,
Y,
Z things.
There's a thousand people telling us we're doing everything wrong.
Every single day, there is like a competitive new product that shows up.
If we let ourselves just get pulled by those forces,
I don't think it results in anything good.
And I think what's also cool is cleaning stuff up is easier than ever.
Like you think of a new way, in the past, I would
I realized, oh, there's a new pattern that we should be using.
And we would just start to use that stuff for stuff going forward,
but it was too much work to clean up all the old stuff.
But now you can clean up all the old stuff.
It's like you can ask the agent to go implement a new pattern everywhere.
It's very easy to clean up tech debt.
It's very easy to find new patterns and implement them across a codebase.
Very easy to clean up dead old patterns.
And yeah, you're right that there's no direct result of
of doing that.
I think you can be a successful company without ever doing that.
The way I think about it is there's a million ways to be a
successful company.
There's all these different companies that are successful out there.
If you had your pick of any company you could work for,
you probably wouldn't pick 99% of them.
So I want to make sure we build a place that we're happy to
work at five years from now.
Our day to day is happy.
We feel good.
We feel good working there every single day.
It's not this thing where it becomes miserable to work there
We can't get anyone good to join us because it's mostly about
slogging through legacy stuff.
And in this memo,
after you listed all of these things and you're basically saying,
all right,
we're shipping a bunch of stuff that we don't need.
We're not cleaning it up.
We're not thinking.
You actually said something really interesting.
I'm quoting you again.
The worst part about all of this is I don't think we're trading
this off to move faster.
I think we're moving at a normal pace.
Right.
Yeah.
It feels like we're going fast.
But then I look back and I'm like,
I don't know if we actually are going that fast.
And
I don't think we're going any slower than our competitors but
we're certainly not
going any faster than them so if you're trying to look at
productivity it's so easy
to trick yourself into thinking you're being more productive
and when you sit down
and really look at it oftentimes like it's not as crazy as you
expect I guess what
you're saying is you know don't be complacent and accept but
like just be critical
and look at is this working like should we should we slow down
to speed up should
we focus on the invisible stuff those kind of things I really
believe in just like
preparing a lot and like
setting up the foundations right.
And then when you spring,
you spring with so much more force than you would if you just
forced it earlier on.
One thing I like about you is you do call out BS.
When it's a BS,
especially when it's really trending on social media,
again,
you're
on access happens a lot specifically.
And here's a tweet that I'll read to you that you'll remember.
It went very viral.
So many people,
you know,
VC folks all said like,
yeah,
this is the future.
And this is what it said.
The 24 to 24
29 year old engineer will soon become the most valuable asset
in technology because
they have pre-AI principles and post-AI speed and it's an
undefeated combo and
people are saying like yeah this is the future like this
generation who is not too
old have the old things they will be killing it again they have
no preconceptions
of what used to be possible and you did call BS on us can you
can you talk tell me
like who you're thinking well it's it's funny because like
I'm just so tired.
Every single day I wake up and I open the feed and just prediction after
prediction,
the future's going to be like this,
the future's going to be like that,
the future's going to be like that.
Everyone's just making stuff up, right?
That one's funny because that's a very classic post where it's like,
person like me has all the advantages.
Person not like me has all the disadvantages.
It's like everyone is just saying mantras to themselves because
the root thing
that's going on here is we are experiencing a moment of great change.
Everyone is very nervous about what that means for their own
position in it.
A defense mechanism is to confidently assert a future in which
you're a winner.
And that's almost what every single prediction that you see is happening.
You almost always trace it down to companies like mine will be
successful.
Other companies will fail.
My job won't be replaced by AI,
but everyone else's job will be replaced by AI.
And everyone has some rationalization for this,
but the root thing that's happening here is everyone is scared
and worried and not
sure about where things are going.
And we are just bombarded with predictions and protecting their
own psyche.
Yeah, I'm just tired of predictions.
Yes, we're going to have time of great change.
I just focus on the next day.
What can we do today?
What can we do tomorrow?
I didn't know I was going to be working on this a year ago.
I don't know what I'm going to be working on a year from now.
I'm just trying to do the thing that makes sense right away.
This thing about how young people have, that's always been a thing.
Young people have a lot of advantages.
They have the classic disadvantage of not having a lot of experience,
but having a lot of energy.
I have a lot of experience but not as much energy as a 20 year
old so it's just the
same thing it's always been like you know it's and it's funny
because he like that
one's particularly funny because he said 24 to 29 why not like
18 to 25 you know it
just told me it's clearly he falls in that age range which is
why he's saying that
it's just like yeah it's just made up and I think everyone's
just like nervous and
worried I think it's good to just be honest about it because
it's true like I I
mean I'm nervous and worried as well just because it's
the changes faster than before.
And this is talking with like the greats of the industry who
have lived through the
Ken Beck,
Martin Fowler,
Grady Booch.
And they're all saying that they have seen change like this,
like,
for example,
when they went from mainframes to microprocessors,
but it was throughout more like a decade,
not a matter of a year or so,
or maybe we're now at this point,
two or three years.
And they're all saying the same thing, that the change is faster.
But yeah,
as you say,
it's very easy to rewrite history and say it was always obvious,
but it's just hard to tell.
Yeah, it's so unobvious.
Everything that ends up happening is always counterintuitive.
There's always people that see it correctly and line themselves
up properly for it,
but none of the obvious things ever happen.
The end state we're going to end up at,
it's going to be so weird from our point of view now,
it's going to make total sense in hindsight.
Yeah.
predicting is a lot harder than people think it is.
So far with OpenCode,
especially with OpenCode,
you and the team have reached really good success.
What are the things that comes to building products and your
engineering principles
that have not really changed from the early days or the ones
that you've learned
and you've stuck to them and it helped make OpenCode successful as well?
Yeah, I think for us on the product side, like I said, it's very simple.
You probably only have one good idea in your whole product.
Get the user to experience that as fast as possible.
It sounds so easy,
but if you go try every single product out there,
you will see a million accidental steps they introduced from
the user hearing about
your product to like seeing the value in it.
Very hard to keep that minimal,
very hard to like not let that creep back in.
It's like a constant thing.
So we do this,
I do this thing where like I have a command that like runs up a
new Docker
container and runs open code.
which lets me experience the first time experience.
I do that like once every two weeks.
And I'm always catching stuff that we've messed up in that
process by accident.
The job of product isn't to just receive a problem and ship the
immediate solution.
It's to absorb all the problems and understand that there's one
solution you can
ship to fix 50 different problems,
right?
That is hard.
That is difficult.
That takes experience.
That takes thinking.
That takes talking to users.
That takes talking to your team.
That takes understanding your code base.
A product is a way to abstract
a solution for many different issues.
That's always going to be hard and that is a skill that you can
infinitely get better at.
I used to be horrible at it.
I'm okay at it now.
I probably have another few decades of getting better at it.
That's what I'm focused on.
How to build stuff
that solve problems well.
And AI has not helped me even a little bit.
What has helped you there?
What has helped you to get this product sense better or figuring out?
Because it sounds like we talked a lot about thinking,
about reflecting about
having one elegant solution that can solve multiple seeming
your unrelated problems.
I mean,
it's just it's years of experience in situations of right
feedback loop,
right?
When I mess something up,
I get a literal human yelling at me and like saying horrible
things about me.
When I design something poorly,
I have to slog through the code base and like do something that
should have been
easy.
That's a lot harder now.
Yeah.
So for us,
it's all about making sure everyone on the team has those
feedback loops.
No one is insulated.
When you're in that type of environment,
even for just like a couple months you just get so much so much
better and I think
a lot of organizations it's hard to keep that type of situation
as your company
grows I think it's probably impossible so if you mostly worked
at larger companies
this is probably the thing that you've never fully experienced
I've been at
companies where the product team would want to like ship
something faster so
they'll cut stuff to get it out sooner
the pain is not felt by them it's felt by their support team
the support team deals
with the angry people and the support team fixes things
manually for them and the
engineering and private team are like you know hey we did it we
shift the feature
and they don't realize that there's like a side effect that
they created so yeah
like really being in that feedback loop just makes you makes
you better uh and then
caring a lot about building something for a lot of people I
think this is another
thing that uh you don't have to try to build stuff for millions
of people I'm not
saying you have to do that but
It is very interesting to have that perspective of make
something that works for
the whole market.
It's so hard to do that.
There's so many different environments,
people,
workflows,
preferences,
constraints.
If you adopt that mindset,
the stuff you work on makes no sense to anyone else observing
things.
They think that everything you're doing is wrong.
They think you're focusing on the wrong stuff.
But if you really are going for the whole market,
you just start to think very differently.
Can you...
Let us in a little bit of how the OpenCode team today works.
Tell us how many people there are,
what kind of setup,
and maybe we can walk a recent feature that you or someone else launched,
or was it even a team,
and how you also get this immediate feedback.
Yeah,
so we're still figuring this out because we've grown a lot
recently.
We're at 20-something people now,
and it's happened in the last couple months.
We're still very much in the phase of getting everyone settled.
We're in that horrible feeling phase where we have more people than ever,
but we're like going slower than ever because like everyone is
still kind of
getting situated and getting up to speed,
etc.
So we're trying to make it to that phase as fast as possible.
I think for us,
we're an open source company,
which means all of our code is already public.
So we kind of build in public as much as we can.
We've been trying to figure out a good terminology for this,
but if we have a thing we're trying to
chip or make happen there's a phase where you're trying to like
push it up the hill
and that's like a painful phase because you're going from zero
to making it exist
and there's a point where it's definitely not done there's
definitely a lot of work
to do but at that point most of the stuff is figured out as
most just like fleshing
out the details uh so our team really tries to focus on getting
it out of that
first phase into the second phase as fast as possible we kind
of put a milestone of
like this is a demo that we want to show people let's try to
get it to there as
fast as possible and from there again because we're so public
because our users are
so vocal
People tell us exactly what to do after that.
Once the foundation is there and people roughly get what a feature is,
they'll tell us what else they need.
They'll tell us where else we need to make it work.
They'll tell us what sucks about it.
And it gets very easy from there on.
And whoever worked on it, they do that full cycle.
There's no one that's receiving the feedback and summarizing it
from the engineer.
They're receiving the feedback.
They're getting the GitHub issues.
They're getting the replies on Twitter.
And they're figuring out the roadmap and the cycle for it.
So that first phase is the hardest.
But from there, again, the feedback loop kicks in.
Things get better over time.
One of the things that we try to do is,
like the founders,
we try to make sure that the whole team has perspective on
everything that we care
about,
the market,
our competitors,
what we're trying to do,
our position in it.
If they properly understand that,
they naturally land on their own priorities.
For us, motivation is a huge thing.
I said earlier, we know this is a long game.
If it's a long game,
your strategy should be,
how can I stay in it the longest?
The only way to do that is to work on stuff that is exciting
every single day.
We kind of let the whole team grab stuff that they're excited about.
What's the biggest problem they want that they think is the
worst thing that's hurting us?
They're just going to grab that and work on it.
They roughly end up having good judgment if we're doing a good
job providing them
like the right context about what's going on.
So typically people will just grab stuff.
There's been times where our team really want to work on
something and I like
vocally disagree with it.
I was like, I don't think we should work on that.
And they've been right.
A few weeks later,
I realized,
oh,
they were actually correct about it and I was wrong.
So it's really exciting to see our team be able to start to do
that kind of thing.
One thing that comes up,
we didn't mention it a single time in this conversation,
but elsewhere it often comes up,
is taste.
There's this notion or idea that one thing that AI is just very
bad at and probably
will stay bad at is having taste and how as engineers taste.
Taste, product sense, they're, I think, synonyms to some extent.
I think fundamentally it's a good idea.
There's something that makes sense there.
I think with good ideas, they're very simple.
and so everyone kind of repeats the idea but good ideas are
simple very very
difficult to actually live so it's very difficult to actually
have good taste and
it's like a lifelong yeah one it can be learned uh it's like a
lifelong thing that
you're going to work on forever I think the root issue is a lot
of people will say
that the whole taste thing but do you actually believe it like
do you actually
believe that your product has to be good there's so much like
there's so much out
there now that's like
the code doesn't have to be good the product doesn't have to be
good like nothing
has to be good it's just this other thing you can still be
successful and they
point to companies that have crappy products that have crappy
engineering but still
make a lot of money right so there's like a thing in the air
about maybe all that
stuff doesn't matter the moment that gets in your head
You're just not going to ship good products.
Fundamentally, you don't believe in it.
And I feel like the number of people that vocally believe that
craft is really
important,
making an irrationally good product is still something that
you're going to do.
Because most great products,
they could probably be like 50% less good and have no material
impact on it.
but it shows up in other ways that are really hard to directly
draw the line it's
if you start to be lazy in one place you start to become lazy
everywhere it's like
an infection so my thing with the whole taste thing is like
yeah you're saying taste matters but do you really believe it
it's like a very very
high bar to be someone that says i really care about good products for me
personally i care a lot about it and i am nowhere near
achieving my own bar like
i'm like so missing my own bar on what i think what i believe
is when you hear me
talk about quality and stuff using my products you're like oh
it doesn't he's like
kind of ahead of what he's saying that's because like i'm like
still trying to get
better at it you know so i look at products that are really good
I'm still very inspired by them.
I still have like heroes that I think just kind of do a great
job at certain things.
And now I have a long way to go to get there.
Can we talk about these heroes,
the products and the engineering teams that you look up to and why?
Yeah, yeah.
So I think in my space,
in DevTools,
I think Mitchell Hashimoto is like an obvious one.
Our company is very similar or trying to be similar to theirs
in that all their
products are open source.
They became mass adopted Things like Terraform became the
default It's very hard to
do something like that And it's well executed across the board
In the microscopic,
in the macro The business model His work with Ghosty has been
really great The
architecture of it cares about every little detail And it shows
up when you use a
product And he's very good at product He made a clip that's
very similar to the
thing we were just talking about Where
Every feature you ship it's not about the features about how it
interacts with
every existing feature and his work as a product person is to
make sense of all
that and he's very good at doing that I think he's probably one
of the best for
being also a good programmer so I think he's someone that I
admire a lot and I hope
that we can kind of be as good as that one day
I sensed,
as we're talking about taste,
we started to talk a lot about quality.
Could it be that quality is one of the last few things that
these days a startup,
a small company going up against Goliath has left to hang on to?
Yeah, yeah.
And I think the flip side of it is it's easier than ever to rot
your product.
I think it's with these agents and everything.
So you see with big companies,
big companies' products are rotting faster than ever.
Even startups' products, I was saying this the other day, like,
Now if a product is a year old,
it's probably already kind of going to shit.
And I think it's because of these agent workflows.
So yeah, I still believe quality is a huge differentiator.
It's not just something you can decide to do.
I think it needs to show up every single aspect of your company.
You have to do things that are irrational.
I think that's kind of what quality comes from.
You do a bunch of things and 50% of those things you didn't have to do.
And I think very few people are willing to operate that way.
There's like a cold logic these days to programming into
software into products.
It's like,
I'm like a business guy and I care about business,
which means I only do things that are hyper hyper rational.
And a lot of people think that's what being good at business looks like.
And of course, that can work.
But
Yeah, I think quality is a huge differentiator.
I mean,
even if you look at our story,
when we first launched OpenCode,
CloudCode was the only other real thing we were going up against.
A big initial differentiator was that our terminal experience
just felt better.
We spent a lot more time on... We built our own terminal framework.
Building your own framework is the first thing they tell you
not to do,
right?
It's the thing that no engineering team should do.
It's irrational.
Yeah, exactly.
But it did
We looked at it and we couldn't achieve the experience we wanted.
We're people that use terminal tools.
We look at tools like NeoVim and enjoy them and know what is possible.
I mean,
again,
going back to Mitchell,
he worked on making terminal stuff as good as possible.
He knows what's possible with it.
Once we know what's possible,
how are we going to ship something that's not pushing those
capabilities to the
max?
And very initially,
a lot of the reason people were using us when people were
talking about us compared
to cloud code was
how GenGeek Cloud Code was or how much it flickered or how much
it did,
whatever.
And it didn't matter.
Like there's a hugely successful product,
but we irrationally focused on some of the quality stuff that
helped us go up
against a much larger product company with much more funding.
What's your work set up?
work setup.
I've now switched to a framework desktop.
Nice.
The one where you can replace?
Yeah, the little tiles in the front and stuff.
Yeah,
so that running Arch Linux on a non-ultra,
I guess it's a 5K display.
It's a small 5K display.
I use Italian Window Manager which I've been using for 10 years
and that's roughly
it yeah got my SM7B as well the mic and I use my iPhone as my
camera that's about
it yeah and then you use mostly terminals of course OpenGo terminal right
Yeah,
so I use a...
Oh,
I guess my sidebar is actually a little bit more complicated.
So that is my physical machine, but I do all my work on a remote machine.
So I associate it to a much bigger,
beefier computer that has many TMUX sessions going,
one for each project,
NeoVim as my editor,
and then open code.
It's usually split half,
so like NeoVim on the left,
open code on the right,
and I'm going between the two.
So yeah, TMUX, Arch, NeoVim, open code.
I wanted to ask you how you think engineering leadership has
changed with AI?
Because you've been an engineer,
founding engineer,
then you've led teams before.
You're technically leading a team now as well.
And also,
when you talk with others,
you're not talking with a lot more CTOs and like-minded folks.
What's different?
Are people being more hands-on?
Is that even a good thing?
Yeah,
I think I'll tell you something that I've heard,
and I think on one hand this makes sense,
on the other hand I'm not too sure about it.
I think these teams are now looking at themselves as,
okay,
what's the role of an engineer now?
If you're not going to write the code, what do you do?
Your role maybe is to figure out how to make it easy to ship
code that is,
to safely ship code,
right?
Set up guardrails so that
If someone prompts an agent to do something, it's not introducing a bug.
Make sure your testing story is good.
Make sure there's proper conventions and patterns in your
codebase that agents can
follow so they're not adding something that's really crazy.
So your role ends up being more like,
how do I still have the right guardrails to
Make it so someone that is using an agent can kind of blindly
ship something that works well.
Whether it's another engineer,
it could be your marketing team that is trying to ship a change
to your website.
How do you make it safer to make changes?
And this is like the novel way that everyone is kind of looking
at engineering teams.
The thing that I find interesting is that that's not novel.
This has been the thing we've always been trying to do forever.
How do we get a junior engineer to ship
code safely without breaking stuff, right?
How do we make patterns in the codebase?
How do we make tests?
It's all the old stuff that we've always wanted to do.
I would love to be able to hire 100 junior engineers and have
them be effective,
but there's limits to that.
We were we never really figured that out and like some
companies did to some degree
some companies kind of didn't so it's kind of the same problem
as always which is
how do I make a less experienced person punch above their
weight right and now you
know it's using coding agents that's maybe like how do we let a
designer ship stuff
stuff like that uh so in a lot of ways I think it's the same
problem as always
which is how do you make code bases that are easy to work in
scalable flex to new
requirements um
I think a lot of the old patterns from here coming back.
We've always been a big domain-driven design company.
We did it in a very light way.
We're now doing it in a much heavier way because we find that
these kind of boring
enterprise-y patterns end up being pretty useful because you
have a bunch of idiots
on your team now.
the coding agents are a bunch of idiots and they are going to
work 24-7 and they're
going to ship a lot of stuff so you need way more guard rows
than you used to I
think what's nice is some of these old patterns we hated
because they were very
verbose they produced reliable code that was modular and safe
but they were very verbose and annoying to type out but you're
not typing it out
anymore so now you can kind of get the benefits of these
patterns without the
downsides so we're starting to like explore that more and kind
of enjoy that yeah I
wonder if like design patterns might make their way back
remember in the 2000s or
like mid-2000s they were a huge thing of like again for
structure it helped junior
engineers not mess things up yeah
And it was very verbose,
so eventually people just hated them and got rid of them.
Yeah,
and if you're a good programmer,
you didn't have to do those patterns.
You didn't need the training wheels in a lot of ways.
But now,
the agents don't have training wheels,
so you've got to put them back on.
Yeah,
and what advice would you have to more experienced engineers who,
again,
have been pretty good engineers until now,
and they're like,
alright,
I just want to stay with it,
keep my game high,
and
have the skills and build up the experience so I could work at
a place like OpenCode.
I have a tough time giving advice to people because I feel like
I work in such a weird place.
My company,
one,
is a startup,
so it's innately automatically a little bit weird.
Two,
we do open source,
which is like five companies that are open source companies,
really.
So everything we do and the type of people we try to bring in,
I don't know if it generally applies to everyone.
I think the most I could say is, and I've always believed even pre-AI, is
software engineering is a skill that can be applied to an
industry and you can just
be a great software engineer and that's totally fine you can
probably have a good
career doing that but if you also become an expert in a
specific industry that's
like a deadly combo if you are like
Just pick any industry.
Let's say farming.
You understand the farming industry really well.
And you're also a decent software engineer.
You're probably the top 10 people in the world for that
combination that the whole
industry will want to hire.
So what's great about being a software engineer
you don't have to pick an industry like everyone else has to be
like I'm going to
be in medicine for the rest of my life you can choose to do
medicine for 10 years
of your life and like do tech in the medical field and become
an expert in that and
realize you don't like that industry and pick a completely
different industry and
just go become an expert in that that's so exciting I think
software engineers are
curious people and it's just so fun to be able to like deeply
learn an industry in
that way and eventually you'll find something that clicks that
you can stick with
and also being an industry expert.
It's very easy to become a unicorn of a person in that way.
And when we started, we were talking about how software is everywhere.
Software engineers are everywhere.
And I guess every industry will lack software engineers who are
really curious
about their industry.
It doesn't take long.
You spend a year in any industry.
You now know it more than 99% of people.
But I think the trick here is it's very easy to turn your brain
off to that side of
things and just focus on
I'm given a task to add something to the UI.
Your opportunity as a software engineer is you get to be in any
company in the
world and learn about anything.
And you should take advantage of that.
There's a rational career reason to do that as well.
As a closing, do you have any book recommendations?
Things that you've enjoyed or changed how you think?
Yeah, it's funny because I do not read books at all.
Or reading recommendations.
I'll expand on that.
My wife is an avid reader.
and I get to benefit from that because she reads all the books
and then she tells
me like all the good ideas in it and I restate them like
they're on my own idea
like I've read the book I did have like a reading phase earlier
on I think kind of
helped uh helped me understand like a lot of how the world
works uh I'm a big fan
these are like boring recommendations but I'm a big fan of uh a
bunch of Taleb's
work I think he's basically got like a couple good ideas and
it's maybe hard to
read a whole book because the book is just one good idea
inflated into a book
but these are just fundamental true things about the universe
that you can just see
play out everywhere so huge fan of stuff like skin in the game
obviously black swan
is super popular a lot of this stuff that I found to be very
influential on myself
is the idea of emergent properties so
almost everything great in the world is came not through like
top down design.
It came through a bunch of smaller entities operating together randomly.
And then something kind of great comes out of that.
And you see that whether it's in
robust software,
or what makes a city great,
what makes a neighborhood walkable,
what makes an organism capable of surviving disease.
So this whole bottom-up versus top-down in terms of designing systems,
there's a few books that talk about that,
Taleb is one of them,
and I feel like I see that everywhere.
Once you understand his ideas, you realize they underpin the whole world.
Dax, thanks so much for this conversation.
This was fun.
Yeah, it was good.
Thanks for having me.
I hope you enjoyed this conversation with Dax as much as I did.
Dax is in a rare position.
He's building one of the fastest growing AI coding tools out there,
going from 650,000 to nearly 8 million monthly active users in
just a few months.
And yet, he's the one telling us to slow down.
One thing I really liked is what Dax called the muted prickle.
Pre-AI, when you wrote a hack, you knew you were writing a hack.
You felt a little bad about it.
You'd remember it the next time,
and that feeling kept your judgment sharp.
With AI agents, that feeling is gone.
Now someone else is dealing with the consequences.
The landmines are still there,
they just won't blow up on you today,
and we don't even pay attention to a lot of these landmines
being placed by AI
agents.
Finally, I really appreciated Dax's memo to his team.
He basically admitted,
we're shipping features we shouldn't,
we're absorbing too many hacks,
And the worst part is we're not even moving faster.
We just feel like we are.
That's a pretty brave thing for a founder of a hot AI native
startup to say out loud.
And I think it's a reality check that a lot of engineering
teams need right now.
If you enjoyed the episode,
be sure to subscribe on your favorite podcast platform or on YouTube.
And if you'd like to support the show,
leaving a rating or review really helps.
Thanks for listening and see you in the next episode.